Rails review
===

## Things I need to do to setup before lectures
- Already build the docker images
- Already set up cra and test to run from local vs docker
- Already set up react libraries that will be needed; no install time
  + react-router
  + react-masonry
  + material-ui
  + axios
- Already be running cra on port 3001
- Already be in docker shell for rails

## Today's Agenda

# RESUME RECORDING

- What lessons have we learned about Ruby / Rails / Jungle? [10m]
  + Easier to pick up and get going with it
  + Rails does a lot for us (generate boilerplate code, write less code overall, etc)
  + Migrations were really interesting and new
  + Ruby has a lot of implicit things in the language (returns, blocks, self)
  + Simulating to work with an existing codebase while not knowing the language / framework and having to learn "on the fly".
  + Easier to go through an existing codebase because you can see existing solutions and get ideas from there (pattern based learning)

- Anatomy of a Rails App - a.k.a MVC [10m]
  + Talk to the MVC image

Questions?

- Oh, so cool. Wait, can we use Rails with React? [5m]
  + Fun, Yes!
  + How might that work? Two options
    - react-rails gem; which basically lets you render React instead of erb
    - make a rails API + a React frontend

- Lets build airBnB but for home office sharing. [10m]
  + what should we call it? homespace? homepods? the office?
  + So what are the user stories?
    - user must be able to see summary of all listings
    - user must be able to list their homeoffice
    - user must be able to see details about a particular listing
    - user must be able to see all listings of a particular user
    - listings must have a title, photos, description, location, price, date posted
    - listings can have reviews
    - reviews can have a rating and text content

- Setting expectations
  + We're not going to build a ready to launch app;
    - but let's shoot for a prototype - a.k.a Minimum Viable Demo
  + My Mac is acting up with installing Rails so,
    - I'm using Docker; kinda like vagrant. But better ...shh
    - You should not notice any difference except seeing a Dockerfile

- So the goal is that we're going to build a Rails API
  + And a React frontend; if we have enough time
  + The focus though is more on the Rails API

Any Questions?? Let's begin! [5m]

- Show the folders you've created
- cd into the api folder

### Rails API [50m]

1. **Install rails:** if you don't already have it. I already did so no thanks ;)
  `gem install rails`

2. **Scaffold:** `rails new homepod-api --api` and `cd homepod-api`

  - Rails folder structure - a.k.a I wonder what this does? [10m]
    + The `views` folder will be mostly empty even when I'm generating resource scaffolds

**Skip this**
3. **Allow Cross Origin requests:** Put `gem 'rack-cors', :require => 'rack/cors'` in your `Gemfile`
  
  - `bundle install` again

4. **Scaffold Entities:**[10m]

- Our entities are:
 + User: first_name, last_name, email, password, avatar
 + Listing: title, photos, description, location, price, created_at
 + Review: rating, content

```sh
rails generate scaffold user first_name last_name email password avatar
rails generate scaffold listing title photos description:text location price:decimal user:references
rails generate scaffold review rating:integer content:text user:references listing:references
```

### Walkthrough files / folders created [15m]
- walkthrough the routes
- walkthrough the controllers
- walkthrough the models
  + Listing `has_many`
- walkthrough the migrations

- But; it has not created anything in the database yet
  + run `rake db:migrate`

- walkthrough the schema.rb
  + dbdiagram.io

- Test what we've got with Postman / browser
  + run the server
  + go to `/listings` - expects an empty array

### Kinda boring, let's seed [5m]

- Walkthrough seed file
- add `faker` to Gemfile
- run `bundle install`
- run `rake db:seed`


# B R E A K
# RESUME RECORDING


- run the server and test `/listings` again
  + expecting non-empty array of listings

- include `reviews` in listings:
  
  ```rb
  render json: @listings, include: [:user, reviews: { include: :user }]
  ```

### Scoping vs Namespacing vs Nested resource [10m]

- I kinda like to say this is an api and also version it
- Let's scope all route to begin with `/api/v1/`
- In `config/routes.rb` do:
  ```rb
  scope '/api/v1' do:
    # all existing routes
  end

  # get '/status': pages#status
  ```

Questions? Comments? [5m]


**Start the server:** `rails server -b localhost` The default port is `3000`


API altogether:
> Rails version matter

```sh
docker run -it -v $(PWD):/app -p3000:3000 api /bin/bash
cd app
rails new homepod-api --api
cd homepod-api
rails generate scaffold user first_name last_name email password avatar
rails generate scaffold listing title photos description:text location price:decimal user:references
rails generate scaffold review rating:integer content:text user:references listing:references
rails db:migrate
rails server -b 0.0.0.0

```

### The GUI

*Summary of all setup commands for docker just for me*

```bash
docker run -it -v $(PWD):/app gui /bin/sh
cd app
npx create-react-app fishspace-gui
cd fishspace-gui
npm i react-router @material-ui/core @material-ui/lab @material-ui/icons react-router-dom axios react-masonry-css
```

1. **Scaffold new app:** In the folder `gui`, do `npx create-react-app homepod-gui`
  + I already did!
  + walkthrough the folders

2. In the listings component;
  - use axios to fetch listings
    + console.log the fetched listings
    + setState with the listings
    ++ walkthrough proxy set up and why
  - import the listing Card

  ```js
  import './masonry.css';
  import Masonry from "react-masonry-css";
  import ListingCard from '../../components/ListingCard/ListingCard';
  ```

  - render listingCards

  ```js
  const [listings, setListings] = useState([]);

  useEffect(() => {
    axios.get('/listings')
    .then(({ data }) => {
      console.log('data :>> ', data);
      setListings(data)
    })
  }, [])
  ```

  - add masonry

  ```js
  <Masonry
    breakpointCols={5}
    className="my-masonry-grid"
    columnClassName="my-masonry-grid_column">
    {listings.map(listing => <ListingCard key={listing.id} { ...listing } />)}
  </Masonry>
  ```

3. **Restructure folder structure:**

Don't overthink this, find a boilerplate you're familiar with .. er.. Scheduler?

4. **Other dependencies:**

*google these libraries*

- [react-router](https://lmgtfy.com/?q=react-router)
- [reactn](https://lmgtfy.com/?q=reactn) or [redux](https://lmgtfy.com/?q=react-redux)
- [material-ui](https://lmgtfy.com/?q=material-ui)


Thanks folks!

## References

[React Masonry CSS](https://github.com/paulcollett/react-masonry-css)

[KV's notes / lecture](https://web.compass.lighthouselabs.ca/activities/433/lectures/3405) - Thanks KV!

[Travis' notes](https://web.compass.lighthouselabs.ca/activities/433/lectures/3263) - Thanks Travis!

[dbdiagram.io](dbdiagram.io) - visualizing your `schema.rb` file.

[Learn more about Action Cable and websocket](https://medium.com/@dakota.lillie/using-action-cable-with-react-c37df065f296)

[Authentication Rails / React JWT](https://levelup.gitconnected.com/jwt-auth-in-a-react-rails-app-8a7e6ba1ac0)