## Housekeeping [5m]

- Who's here? Everyone
- Setup: LiveCodeShare Setup and Following
- Agenda walkthrough

## Hello [10m]

- I'm Hafiz
- Joke
- Hafiz's Remote Lecture Protocol
  - Recorded
  - Raise hands for questions
  - Questions & Answers 
  - The right to mute
- I'm on Windows (what???)
- There will be a break at the 50-60m mark

## Zoom Onboarding [5m]

- Raise hands
- Live Share check

## Yesterday [5m]

- Checkin
- Community Driven Education 

## Lectures in General [5m]

- Purpose of morning class/lecture
- Don't code along
- Instructor's Lecture Notes (walkthrough)

## This Lecture [2m]

- Not going over curriculum slides.
- Working iteratively and incrementally. 
- Errors and debugging.
- Manually testing our code as we build it.
- Git workflow (and GitHub)
- Command line tips and habits to try and develop.

## Live Coding Exercise [30m]

> Write a node program that takes in an unlimited number of command line arguments, goes through each and prints out the sum of them. If any argument is not a whole number, skip it. Do support negative numbers though.

**Let's get started;**

- I'm going to start a folder here `demo`

- What is the first minimum thing we can do to cause errors in the right direction?
  + this is kinda of trick question
  + we should run the file as if it exists `node sum.js`
    - What's your hypothesis? Yes error - but what error?

  + next create the file `sum.js`
    - and run `node sum.js` again
      + What do we expect? Nothing right!

  + what's the next error we can cause in the right direction
    - to do a sum, we need to like an array of number
      + say we console.log that array of nums?
      + so lets fix that?
        - `let nums`
          + what do we get? `undefined`
        - fix that with an array of numbers: `let nums = [2, 3, 4]
          + hardcoding the array makes the focus simple:
            - summing it up!
        - What simple step could we take in the right direction? Error driven development
          + console.log('Sum Total:', sum)
            - What error are we expecting? Reference Error!
          + So we define `sum` => `let sum;` ?
            - I'm just going to skip that step and do `let sum = 0`
          **Questions, comments, disagreement?
        
        - comment out the nums - we already know what it prints
        - So we want to loop through eh?
        - Anyone suggest hwo we loop through? What options do we have for looping?
          + for loop - the traditional c-style
          + for ... of
          + forEach - I'm not going into this right now because I want to avoid talks about callbacks; it's going to come up later.

          + Choose `for .. of` - nicer to read than the c-style for loop
          + Could someone walk me through how I might go about this loop?
            - clog ('num', num)
            - sum += num
          + we should now see the sum;

          + How is this process? Talk through why EDD and contrast to TDD
            - Questions / Comments?
            - Is it slow?

          + Alright, whe don't we make this array dynamic? Comming from the cli
            - equate nums = process.argv
            - if I didn't know, I could google how to read command line argument in node
              + And when I get `process.argv`, I could go into REPL to explore what that looks like
                - doesn't give us everything; but it gives us that it's an array and with the path to node
              
              + I could also console.log what it looks like?
                - If I run `node sum.js 1 2 4`, what does the console say?
                - Also what will the sum be?
                  + concatenated strings!

              + What now? How do we remove the first two that's not part of our nums?
                - what will you look up on google if you didn't know?
                  + `split array in js mdn`
                    - follow the search to documentation
                  + talk about not memorizing these functions but rather practice with how to find them
                  + Way to get out confusion (especially when there seem to multiple ways to do same thing) is to experiment; for example splice and slice
                    - node REPL for `splice` - mutating the array
                    - node REPL for `slice` - returns a new array
                    - we shouldn't be doing splice on process.argv
                  + after slice, we're still returning stringified sum rather than expected number
                    - Is anyone wanting to help us out with what should fix?
                      + what will you google? 'convert a string to number' - skip how to
                      + follow the article (`gomakethings`); Actually a good article; gives us all this options.
                        - you could read deeper into the documentation or you could experiment in node
                          - node REPLE. Number('sdkjf'), Number('234')
                          - Feel free to experiment.
                          - Number seem should work; let try that
                          - `sum += Number(num)`
                    - what happens if I added some random string to the number lists?
                      + what do we expect?
                        - NaN i.e 50 + NaN
                      + alright how do we solve this?
                        - note that we can't do `numProper !== NaN`
                        - if (!isNaN(numProper))
                        - test it works
                      + Time to commit
                        - git status (I do this all the time)
                        - git add sum.js
                        - git commit -m'WIP - initial attempt at sum cli' (curios about multi line commits; write it down)
                          + will this command save it to a server somewhere like github or something?
                          + No these are all local commits, so `git push origin master`
                          + will this work?
                            - run it! and talk about this git error
                              + and git errors easy to miss as well due to no colors
                          + So let's go create a remote on github repository
                            + don't add README for now; it might be a little complicated than we want to go into today
                            + add remote
                              - use the ssh not https; tell them why.
                          + do git push and talk through the error
                            - what branch on your master should I push to?
                              + git push -u origin master
                              + -u so I don't have to be typing `origin master`
                          + because I have trust issues; I'm going to confirm that worked on github

                          **Questions / Comments?**



## Refactoring [10m]

- convert into a function
  + what's my first step? Call the function - that does not exist
    - `doSum` is not defined
  + so let's create the variable. `let doSum`
    - `doSum` is not a function
  + alright, let's define the function
    - avoid variable shadowing
    - comment out the procedural logic
  + what should this function return? the sum?
    - return 0; if sum were zero?
  + alright move the sum logic into the function
  + test that it works

## Visualizing [10m]

## 5 - Recap & Takeaways [5m]

- Working incrementally! How?
- Errors are our friends, let's actually cause them to control our dev workflow
- Best practices with git: 
  - don't init within existing git repo
  - git status ALL THE TIME
  - git add specific files (good habit)
  - good commit messages (look into multi line plz)
  - push frequently even if you are not collab (backup)
- How to google effectively
- Experiment with the node REPL when learning new functions etc
  - Documentation is good for examples, but not hands on!
- Harass the mentors. They are bored and want more friends
  - Code reviews
  - Asking for advanced tips ("how did X do Y?")
- Start talking to your desk mates (diff from yesterday)



## 6 - Closing Comments [5m]

- What's next?
  - Discord
  - Compass D1 and D2 work
  - Lecture notes in a few mins/hours
  - You'll be prompted for lecture feedback. Please leave them.
- Curriculum Outline (View the slides yourself and ask questions in Slack for EMs to answer)