### HTTP Review [10m]

**What are the most important things about HTTP?**

- Requests
  + Methods
  + URL

- Response
  + Status code
  + Body

- HTTP Statelessness?
  + Server has amnesia?
    - Why was it implemented this way? Simple to implement

### HTTP Servers - Demo [40m]

- Create `0_http_server.js`
- Run the file / puts a console.log('test')
- require http and console.log it
- Ask what they expect? an object?
- http.createServer
- server.listen(port, cb) => this is async cos it takes time for server to connect to the port.
- Yay! We have a webserver! Test it with a browser
- Browser not getting a response
- Handle the request `server.on('request', cb)` like with TCP; Put a console.log in the `cb`
- Browser still not getting response
- the callback is called with request / response objects
- console.log what request obj looks like; showcasing `method` and `url`
- console.log the response obj; showcasing the `end` method
- res.end with html string

#### Routing

- How about multiple pages?
  + `/` - 'Welcome to homepage. We are mythical characters`
  + `/daniel`
  + `/random` - use `Math.random()`
- use `if else if else` => else 404
- Test that that works
- Could we make this better??
  + Switch
  + Lookup
    - to response values. What's the problem with this?
    - Not dynamic! We should look up to functions!
  + the lookup functions take `req, res`


#### Templating

- change the plain texts to html pages
- How do we do the random page? Or what happens if our list of characters grows or shrinks? I delivered some lecture and I lost my super powers - so decommissioned
- functions again for dynamic pages?

# B R E A K

**RESUME RECORDING**

### Express [40m]

- install express
- require and clog express
- app.listen like with http
- app.get syntax and res.send()


#### EJS

- EJS as a replacement for our `createPage` function
- install ejs
- create views folder and add index.ejs file
- app.set('view-engine', 'ejs'); Look up docs
- res.render('index')


#### Middleware

- think middleware pattern as an assembly line
- routes as middlewares
- the `next` function
- `app.use`


### Things we learned