HTTP Cookies & User Authentication
===

# Things to do before lecture


## Journey So far [5m]

- Pay attention to stress
  + Curios what do you folks do to destress?
  + Are y'all getting enough sleep?
  
- Tiny App requirements; make sure you're paying attention to the requirements. It's a common cause for rejection


## 1 - Problem Definition [5m]

> What problem do cookies try to solve?

What the problem with HTTP does cookies solve:

Saves data (session) so it knows when you come back - remembers who you are (in the case of authentication)
- http server cannot maintain session

[xkcd](https://xkcd.com/869/)

> Server has amnesia


## 2 - Sans Cookies [10m]

> Can we solve this problem without cookies?

Yes, using the query parameters.

1. User requests /my/profile
2. Server couldn't find info about (e.g cookie), asks client (user) to login
3. redirects to login
4. user filled login form and send to server
5. server checks `req.body` and finds cred combo that works i.e. that matches a record in the database (we used a fake `users` object as our db)
6. server redirects /my/profile?user=amy
7. user goes to /my/profile?user=1&lang=es
8. server will GET who you are from the query params
9. lets you access the resource / page

Problems with this approach for authentication
- not secure / changeable
- limited shareabilty e.g on SM, twitter etc.
- if user navigates elsewhere, they lose the query params
- new tab will lose session

## 3 - Cookies Demo 1- Language Switcher [20m]

Goal: Setting Language preference

- cd into p1-lang
- run the server
- where do we start? the `home.ejs`
- what happens when we click that?
- create the route `/lang/en`
- we just don't want to render the english page, we want to set cookie - `res.cookie('lang', 'en')`
- then redirect to home

- Test on the browser, check application tab browser console

- What do we want to do in the `/` path
  + check the lang preference
  + if lang is english
- `if (req.cookies.lang === 'en')`
  + any **Questions or Comments**
  + it fails why?
- Could we have fetched cookies without cookieParser?
  + Yes from headers.cookie

- Also, beware of multiple responses

**Is this cookie a good solution for this use case?**

We learned cookie might not be the solution to our language preference use case - majorly due to shareability

## BREAK [5m]
**RESUME RECORDING**

## 4 - Cookies Demo 2 - User Auth [20m]

- cd into the `p2-auth` folder
- start the server

**GOAL**

- User authentication
- Protect treasure so only logged in user can see it

**- Lets get started with Authentication**;
- Try to sign in
- the form makes a get request and our password in the url
- make the form a post
- Try to login again - Cannot post login
- create post login endpoint
- write the steps for user auth
  + get credentials from req.body
  + check if user is in our db
  + check if user's password match submitted
  + set cookie and redirect home
  + ELSE show user some error e.g. res.send('error message') - usually want to rerender the page, but Im being lazy

- lets do it!
- console.log req.body
  + why is not as expected?
  + show them formData from network tab
  + because we don't have bodyParser on
- turn bodyParser and cookieParser on
- turn morgan on and talk about it

- implement the rest; emphasize existing user and the password matching check

**QUESTIONS??**

**-Let's protect the treasure**

- write the steps for protecting treasure
  + extract the set `username` cookie -> req.cookies.username
  + check if username is in db
  + if yes show them the treasure
  + ELSE send them home? or login?

**Question??**

- Implement the logic

- Would it not be cool to know who's viewing the treasure?
  + demo templateVars and `locals.` in views


## 5 - Recap & Takeaways [5m]

- Don't just check cookie's existence, check if you recognize what the cookie represents e.g in your db
- When it might be inappropriate to use cookies e.g language preference. It can be useful to use url params instead due to shareability
- Get morgan for logging to console! Yes do it!
- Use dev tools to monitor request / response and their headers
- Cookies are not secure and can be easily modified
- Protecting authenticated routes e.g `/treasure`
- Nodemon is nice! `nodemon -L <server.js>` for if you're on vagrant
- Cookie Parser just parses - we could access cookies without it i.e from `req.headers.cookie`
- Also, `req.cookies` when trying to access cookie (note the plural and `req` not `res`)

## 6 - Closing Comments [5m]

- There's method to the curriculum, don't get frustrated; remember the growth mindset.
- Feedback, please.
