## THINGS TO DO BEFORE LECTURE

- Open all resources needed in the browser
  + tweeter compass link
  + tweeter demo app on 8080
  + HTML Context is all you need
  + Karl's slide to the right pages
  + CSS Tricks
  + Dagusa.com
  + NO NEED TO OPEN THE LOCAL DEMO HTML

## Intro to CSS

## Agenda today

- [] Tips / Housekeeping [5m]
- [] Demo final App [5m]
- [] HTML review [5m]
- [] CSS review (slides) [15m]
- [] Specificity [15m]
- [] Flexbox Intro - CSS Tricks [30m]
- [] Flexbox layout - Every [20m]


## Tips / Housekeeping [5m]
Start with this:

You'll notice that while this week has more new concepts (every week will), our approach to teaching with you will adjust a bit. Overall as the weeks progress there is lesser emphasis on giving you all the resources, functions, tips that you need to complete an activity, and more expectation of you to poke around until you find an answer.

This means that during lecture if/when a new concept comes up that you don't fully understand, consider writing it down and researching it post-lecture. There are too many new things that you'll encounter directly or tangentially in morning lecture for everyone to ask "What's XYZ?". That is a question for Google before it should become one for us. We're happy to discuss XYZ with you once you've spent some time trying to understand it for yourself.

Other important housekeeping points to give Students:

- Bootstrap (CSS/UI grid frameworks in general) comes later. It makes more sense to focus on vanilla CSS.
- SCSS (also known as Sass) is a better way to write CSS, and there are other alternatives to it. You'll be learning SCSS in this week to implement your Midterm (requirement).
- Writing maintainable CSS is tough, and comes with experience. Not everyone is good at it, even at LHL. - - Use mentors for code reviewing your CSS.
- "poke things until they work". As such:
  + You should tell them to use Chrome for their development
  + DevTools is your biggest friend with front-end development
  + Flexbox aims to correct this by rewriting how we layout the page.
  + CSS Grid is even newer than Flexbox. It is something you can learn on your own (and it is recommended that you do so).
  + Since HTML/CSS has so many subtopics, set their priority for what to focus on or what to avoid (eg: "don't worry about *:before, *:after")


## Demo final app [5m]
https://web.compass.lighthouselabs.ca/projects/w3-tweeter?day_number=w04d1


## HTML - review? [5m]

- **Why do HTML?**
  + Context to content
- **Why semantic tags?**
  + accessibility e.g. screen readers
  + developer readability
  + SEO e.g. google page summary; what's the most important text on the page - content hierarchy
- **Examples of semantic tags:**
  ```html
  <article>
  <aside>
  <details>
  <figcaption>
  <figure>
  <footer>
  <header>
  <main>
  <mark>
  <nav>
  <output>
  <section>
  <summary>
  <time>
  ```


## CSS - review [15m]

### Slide review

- **What does Cascade mean?**
  + top down
  + inheritance

- **The Box Model - what?**
  + Interactive Boxmodel: http://guyroutledge.github.io/box-model/

- **reset.css** why?
  + [**reset.css**](https://meyerweb.com/eric/tools/css/reset/index.html) / **normalize.css** helps reset browser (user-agent) styles, so we can style elements with more reliable expectations e.g. 8px margin on body


### Types of Selectors and their specificity

**Use `specificity.html`**

- Basic / tag Selector
- Class Selector
- ID Selector
- Attribute Selector
- Relational Selectors
  - Descendant Selector
  - Adjacent Sibling
  - more ...

> Remark about selection consistency. I use classes for the most part


# B R E A K [10m]

**RESUME RECORDING**

## Intro to Flexbox [30m]

- Open CSS Tricks flexbox
- open flexbox.html
- walkthrough parent properties


## Flexbox layout - Every fucking website [20m]

- Show them the goal - dagusa.com
- create layout.html emmet
  + nav emmet: `nav.nav>div.nav-logo{The Logo}+ul.menu>li.menu-item*4{menu $}`
  + header emmet: `header#header.one-column>h1.one-column_title{Hey Look!}+div.divider{___}+p.one-column_text+a[href='#first'].button{Button that makes the page scroll}`
  + first section emmet: `section#first.one-column>h2.one-column_title+div.divider{___}+p.one-column_text+a[href='#second'].button{Google that shit}`
  + second section emmet: `section#second.one-column>h2.one-column_title+div.divider{___}+ul.four-columns>(li.one-fourth>i.icon+h3+p)*4`

- style layout first, then background then colour

## Closing remarks [5m]

  - IRL we always use a reset or normalize css (and therefore border-box)
  - MDN > W3Schools ... CSS-Tricks is also great
  Add MDN to all of your search queries in Google to get MDN-focused results

## What we learned [5m]

- Learned about the Cascading nature of CSS - i.e. it inherits and file is read top down

- Specificity and how different selectors fair on the spectrum

- We learned about CSS Box model and how we might style them using the TRBL shorthand

- Learned about flexbox and the properties we could set on a parent element