# W8D2 Real World React

## THINGS TO CHECK BEFORE LECTURE

- clean out the old demo
- update the notes.md
- run application without Docker
- walk through this note

### Agenda today
- [x] Routing with React Router
- [x] Advanced Routing
- [x] Styled Components
- [x] `useContext`
- [x] `useRef`
- [x] Component Libraries


## Routing [40m]

- Why we need it in an SPA?
  + Page level Conditional rendering
- How we did it in Scheduler
  + transitioning -> useMakeVisualModes
  + browser history not updated

- Go to React Router website
  + Talk through the components it exports ??

- Introduce demo app skeleton
  + start from App.jsx
    - turn on Routing if not already

  + **Goal of Routing Demo**

    - show dagusa.com and talk about routing with the menu items. What user sees changes but nav remains
  
  To show off how to do:`
    - [] Basic routing
    - [] Nested routing

  + then components
    - components structured that way for ease of referral later

  + walkthrough Routing.jsx
    - show browser -> split screen ??

### Basic Routing

  + import { BrowserRouter } from 'react-router-dom'
    - by convention we do `BrowserRouter as Router`
    - What does it do for us? It wraps a bunch of links and routes

  + Wrap everything in Router AND test that nothing has changed!

  + Since router wraps links / routes; Bring in Link
    - create navigations within Router
    `nav>Link[to='/']{menu}*4`
    - test that it works and url changes

  + Well this is underwhelming, let's route to something!

  + Bring in Route
    - the first important props is `path`
    - route renders something when it's path is matched
    - <Route path='/' ><h2>Home</h2></Route>`
    - Test it, and it shows up on every page
    - create for the rest of the Links
      + /products, /about /privacy
    - Test it again, and still shows up on every page

    - this brings us to the prop for Route; `exact`
      + put exact on all the Routes
      
    - Well, components in Route could be huge. It'll be messy in here, clean up with component props
      + create Products.jsx and use component props to render it

    - that `exact` everywhere kinda suck, write everytime but also with dynamic routing `/products/:id` - remember express / tinyApp?
      + introduce `Switch`
      + switch renders the first match vs matching every path that matches

      + move all routes to Switch with '/' at the top. AND remove exacts
      + Test that it renders only the Home page
      + To fix that, we could use `exact` again or reorder our routes
      + move the '/' (Generic) to the bottom
  - this summarizes the basic Routing, but can you have a Router in another Router? Yes can can!

### Nested routing

Lets do this with <Products>; it's a page with many products

- import react-router as in Routing.jsx
- talk about rendering hierarchy i.e Routing renders Products, that's about to render others
- In <Router>, add navs and Links
  + `Router>h2{Products page}+Link[to='products/$']{Product #$}*5+Switch>Route`
  + first Route's path=/products/:id; component=Product
  + it will break righ now since Product does not exist
    - create Product.jsx (<h3>Product</h3>) and import it

- it looks broken when no product is matched; so lets add a default
  + second route path is nothing to always match
    - content: h3{Choose your product}

Test it works!

**Efficiency**

- chances are that we're not going to be hardcoding the links like this and we'll want them dynamic and perhaps coming from an array
  + create an array of products:
    `[{ id: 1, name: 'Product 1'}]`
  + products.map

- what if /products changes to /branches/:branch_id/products
  we'll have to update all the links! and the route
  + this situation is where we want to say, whatever matches up until this point
    - this is where `useRouteMatch` comes in
    - returns a matchedRoute object
    - clog match
      + notice match.url
      + use this in the Links and the Route

**useParams**

Usually within Product, we want to know which product id
  - maybe for api request or finding the right product to show
  - to answer the question, what params was actually matched, we use `useParams`
  - returns pparams object;
  - clog useParams()
  - render Product #${params.id}

Summary, Any Questions??


## Styled Component [20m]

We've been styling so far using Sass; are there other ways to styling in React? Fudge Yeah!

- One popular way is using styled components. What are the motivation behind this?
  + https://styled-components.com/docs/basics

- in App.js uncomment styles and comment out the rest

- import styled from styled-components

To create a styled component; you do e.g. const Header = styled.h2
  + Talk about all the default components available
  + Talk about tagged-template syntax
  + Then `color: white; background-color: tomato`

- Do another example with Paragraph
  Paragraph can have children as a normal component would

- Styling based on props

```js
  const Paragraph = styled.p`
    background: ${(props) => props.darkMode ? 'black' : 'white'};
    color: ${(props) => props.darkMode ? 'orange' : 'teal'};
  `;
```

Test it with `lorem`; test with span for cascade effect.

# B R E A K

**RESUME RECORDING**


## useContext

- Helps us avoid props drilling by side loading global state
- this is essentially what libraries like Redux does
- useContext is a viable contender

- walkthrough the skeleton code in use-context folder
  + including the messages state

- In App.js uncomment UseContext!

### Create Context

- In MessageContext; import { createContext } from 'react'
- this method takes any JS values; could be coming from API for example
- returns context!

```js
import React, { createContext , useState } from 'react';

const defaultState = [
  {
    id: 1,
    text: 'I am message one'
  },
  {
    id: 2,
    text: 'Inside of message two'
  }
]
const MessageContext = createContext(defaultState);


export default MessageContext;
```

### Consume context

- In UseContext; render the two children
  + to consume message we could props drill by loading messages here and passing as props

- In any of the children,
  + import { useContext }
  + import MessageContext

  ```js
  const ChildOne = () => {
    const messages = useContext(MessageContext)
    console.log('messages :', messages);
    return (
      <div>
        <h2>Child One FTW</h2>
        <p>{messages[0].text}</p>
      </div>
    )
  }

  export default ChildOne
  ```

**This is it?** Questions? There's more, please read up on Provider.

### Set context

- Add this to messageContext

```js
export const MessageContextProvider = ({ children }) => {
  const [state, setState] = useState(defaultState);

  return (
    <MessageContext.Provider
      value={[ state, setState ]}
    >
      {children}
    </MessageContext.Provider>
  )
}
```

- In UseContext root component; wrap the children with this provider:

```js
const UseContext = () => {
  return (
    <MessageContextProvider>
      <h1>Use Context</h1>
      <ChildOne />
      <ChildTwo />
    </MessageContextProvider>
  )
};
```

## use Ref

- In App.jsx, uncomment UseRef.jsx
- useRef() returns an object that persist through rerenders

### Classic DOM binding example

- Let's talk through the classic example of using useRef => Binding to DOM elements

- set up Goals => click to focus: Generally, do something to an element, feel the effect on another
  + show the current behaviour

- `const myRef = useRef()`
- pass it to input element `ref=myRef`
- write the clickhandler:

```js
const clickHandler = () => {
    // Implement me
    myRef.current.focus();
  };
```

### Stale state example

- comment out earlier, and uncomment this
- import useState and setup counter state
- implement showAlert

```js
const showAlert = () => {
  // this represents any asynchronous process
  setTimeout(() => alert(counter), 3000)
}
```

- demo stale state

- fix with ref:

```js
const countRef = useRef();
countRef.current = counter;

const showAlert = () => {
  setTimeout(() => alert(countRef.current), 3000)
}
```

**Questions??**


### Hooks API Reference [if time]

## Component Libraries

- Why?
  + Cos devs are lazy
  + consistent design
  + recommends for final project

- Ant Design

- Material UI
  + encapsulates Googles ideas of design - Material Design
    - compare Google vs Bing

- Go component shopping
  + Get a feel for the documentation

- A note on Component mismatch


## What we learned today

 - Router in one page (Routing in a Single page application)
 - The prebuilt components are definitely useful! Use component libraries e.g material-ui.com, ant-design
 - Libraries to use with React e.g React router, Styled components
 - The ability to easily pass state values across components without props drilling.