

- [] Unit and End to End Testing
- [] Cypress
- [] Jest vs Cypress

### Unit Testing Vs. End to End Testing
Unit Testing: Testing one component or function in isolation. A "Unit". Want to keep the amount of code we are testing small.

Integration Testing: Testing the Integration of more than one unit together. How data is passed and received. Timing.

End to End Testing: Start to finish testing. Mimicking a real user interacting with the application. Behavior driven. You care about what appears on the screen (or the results of the program) instead of what code is running.

1. Intro Cypress

2. Start installing

Unit vs E2E

Jest vs Cypress

- what to test is actually our user stories

continue J v C

When Install done, copy command to cypress open

paste the command to open; don't run it tests yet

walkthrough the folders generated and what they are for

In the example integration tests:
  - comment on how less complicated our tests will be
  - comment on mocha chai syntax - describe / it / should / expect
  - comment on cy.get being related to jquery
  - essentially introduce the syntax

**Warn about page flickering** Then Run the test
  - narrate the test
  - comment on how it's usually not this slow. Perhaps video
  - delete the example tests

What we really want to test - Album search
  - start the app and walkthrough

> address nodemodule/bin/cypress open command being added to package.sjon

Create our first test
  - comment about cypress running against a parallel server
  - create `cypress/integration/01_cypress.spec.js`
  ```js
  describe('Cypress', () => {

    it('should work', () => {
      expect(true).to.equal(true)
    })
    it should visit google
    - mention that it's an actual page and you can use the website
      + do a search
  })
  ```

Configuring cypress - open ./cypress.json
  - viewportWidth: 1280
  - viewportHeight: 1200
  - there's one more config but we'll come back for it
  - restart cypress

Update url in expect from google to localhost
  - do a search with the app - britany spears
  - point out that it updates the viewport settings
  - go to settings as well to show more stuff
  - call out baseUrl and why it's good to set

We are going to start testing the checkboxes
  - not how they affect the results but only if they check and uncheck
  - we shouldn't be testing other's people's code e.g if api is returning 50 results rn, it may 54 tomorrow
  - We typically stub out these by providing hardcoded values through fixtures

Create a 02_filters.spec.js
  - set up the describe
  - add the visit
  - comment about working incrementally
  - what we get from cy.visit is a real dom, so we could even inspect it to find the right selectors
  - show inspect to grab the filter form
  - comment about cy.get using the same api as jquery
  - cy.get filters form
    .find() // notice the chaining
    
    + cypress methods actually returns promises
      - that resolves to the selected element in this case with .get
    
    + find(form-group)
    .first()
    .find(input)
    .uncheck()

  - we don't always need to write assertions
    + if the promise chain fails the test fails; so if it unchecks sucessfully it passes

    + we can add assertion if we want to
    
    + should(not.be.checked)// based off of chai && chai-jquery; so any chainers from those libraries are valid

- it can toggle the 1900s
  + I know this is trite, we're testing same buh good to show multiple ways to achieve same
  + cy.visit(localhost..)
    - repitition sucks, lets use cypress.json baseUrl
    - so now visit(/)
    - still we visiting before each test, we should move it to a beforeEach hook
  
  + see how cypress is reacting to that
    - call out the beforeEach
  
  + now finish the test
    - get form-group directly
    - comment about checkbox label and accessibility
    - .contains(1900s)
    - click - we're clicking the label
    - we couldn't do a should be checked since it's not the checkbox
    - let's grab the checkbox by id and test if checked

- Questions?

# B R E A K

- Recap / Questions

- start code cypress/integration/03_input.spec.js

- cypress open

- start the describe block and beforeEach

- start the it block

- we want to grab that input field, lets go inspect it for selector to use

- call .type; show how it types so fast?
  + real user may type slower; add a delay 150

- we don't need a should but we can add a should('have.value', 'Celine dion')
  + since it's an input field, value not text

> Beware of typing strinng, use variables e.g. searchTerm

- think like a QA for a min, can it test making a mistake and retyping? If a user fat fingers stuff?

- start an it block. it can handle backspace
  + we need to do similar stuff like grab the input
  + not DRY!
  + don't do variable like const x = cy.get either cos promise
  + we could just put the cy.get search into the beforeEach since we need it twice
  + now we're stuck within that scope, would be cool to store it in a variable.
  + parallel to jest we would have just created a outer scoped let or something

  + with cypress use .as('varName') - called cypress alias
  + to use the alias we do cy.get @aliasName
  + test that previous test still works
  + copy paste the backspace thing to type
  + show it in cypress
  + closer look at the command in curly. Can do enter, command control etc. A bunch in the commands doc for cypress
  + add a should(have.value, 'Bee Gees')

**Next up, a more complicated test**

- we setup test server, we make api request, test the results
- unlike jest, we don't need to import axios and do any of those we did before. Much simpler

- code cypress/integration/04_results.spec.js

- first thing is to setup fake response; I have this example data
 + looks exactly like result from itunes api; if you searched Daft Punk
 + move it to fixtures

 + start a decribe API result
 + throw in beforeeach with visit

 + psuedocode here
  - set up fake webserver
  - load the fixture into memory
  - fake the endpoint request to be responded to with our data
  - actually type into the search input

  - what to assert? lets see the behaviour of our search up close
    + on the app localhost in the browser
    + type in red hot chili peppers
    + call out the spinners

  - so include in pseudocode:
    + grab spinner and check for visibility
    + check to see if data is displayed by testing a sample
    + grab the spinner again and test non-visibility
  > If you're thinking this test is getting massive; it's actually recommended. Since they spin up browsers every time
    + untick the explicit boxk
    + confirm explicit albums hidden

- setup the server cy.server()
- load the fixtures and alias it
- to fake the enpoint, we need to know what happens on the realapp - what request does it make.
- no need to look at code; just network tab

- test before proceeding to spinner


## Cypress docs best practices from cypress webste







